# High Level Planning for MachineApp Template

## Define the Problem
Our more-advanced MachineApp users want the ability to easily 1) define their data and use it in a running application, 2) build a user interface for editing their data, 3) receive realtime updates about their running application.

## High-Level Parts
1. Python 3 server that handles stateful requests to the application via REST, handles IO operations via REST, and runs the simulation while notifying the client via a Websocket.
2. Simple, JQuery-based client that talks to the Python 3 server over rest, and receives status updates about a particular run over Websockets

### Data
The server will need an environment configuration, specifying which ports to use for the rest API, MQTT, and Websockets. Example:
```json
{
    "rest": {
        "port": 8081
    },
    "websocket": {
        "port": 8082
    },
    "mqtt": {
        "ip": "127.0.0.1",
        "port": 3000
    }
}
```
Something like this should suffice in allowing our users to flexibly start up their MachineApp.

The server should be able to save and read any type configuration file. This will require that the user defines a schema for their data. Alex and I seem to be at the same of level of understanding for what that schema might look like. The building of the schema could even be done visually via the frontend, although it does not necessarily have to. This would define the data that we want available to the user in the MachineApp update loop. Custom configurations should be able to reference other configurations by identifier, rather than requiring a unique name. Perhaps we should be using SQL to store this data so that we can get global identifiers right out of the box.

I also think that a general Machine Configurator will be very important. All MachineApps require a machine configuration. This machine configuration should be able to:
- Specify any number of Machine Motions (I belive Alex has a UI for this?)
- Map axes for each Machine Motion
- Map IOs for each machine motion
- Be able to Jog and Home all of the Machine Motions
For fun - or perhaps as a good test - we can even use the custom configuration system to define and render this data.

### Server Architecture
We'll have the Rest API to talk to and from the client running in one thread. This thread will be able to set stateful flags in the actual MachineApp thread. Flags will include: play, pause, resume, stop, custom (?). This thread will also be responsible for configuration IO: creating, deleting, updating. IO functionalities cannot be executed while MachineApp running functionalities are being executed.

In another thread, we'll have the MachineApp update loop running. I think we can branch into two design patterns here: 1) The user's program runs outright, in a linear fashion, or 2) the user's program runs as a single "frame" in an update. I thing the former is more intuitive for the user, while the latter is more reasonable for the threaded model that we're trying to accomplsh. The latter would also require some re-architecting of `machine_motion.py`. This thread will also be responsible for broadcasting update information the user.

I can't think of a reason for having more threads than this. In this way, the user shouldn't ever have to think about their threads (unless they define a custom endpoint, in which case, it's to be expected that they know what they're doing).

For the Rest server, we can use BottlePy or equivalent. For the Websocket server, I don't want to use AsyncIO, personally, but I can be swayed. It's a little to spooky for me.

In terms of the main MachineApp update loop, the user should have access to their custom configuration in memory at this time. They should also have access to any configuration that their primary configuration references.

In terms of configuration IO, each configuration should be validated against its schema, given a globally unique ID, and validated against whatever custom validator that the end-user defines.

### Client Architecture
Based on the configuration, we're going to render some sort of user interface. We can probably generate much of this user interface to start out with. Common widgets that we'll need are:
- Text Inputs
- Numeric Inputs
- Sliders
- Dropdowns for 1) Enums, 2) Other Configurations, 3) Custom items
- List Inputs (Add/Delete/Move in the list)
- Checkboxes to toggle non-required things on/off
By default, these Widgets can be shown 3 across, in a grid. That will pretty much guarantee that they fit.

Things that we need to have to make it "easy-ish" to define a decent workflow:
- The ability to render a custom Widget in the place of the default Widget. This is really important, and it should be really easy.
- The ability to page-ify the workflow with steps. We need to be able to say "this group should be on Step 1 which is called 'NAME 1'" while "this group of items should be on Step 2 which is called 'NAME 2'"

Other things:
- JSON object UI definitions should be collapsible in all circumstances
- We should display an error in the UI when a configuration loses a reference to another configuration (due to deletion or corruption)